# Supernovae

1. All Supernovae: Excel Spreadsheet containing data for all 740 SNe Ia from Betoule et al. 2014 and Sako et al. 2014 and Jones et al. 2015

   - Betoule data headings: 	

     - Name: SNe Ia name	
     - zcmb: redshift in the rest CMB frame
     - mb: peak apparent magnitude in rest-frame B band / mag
     - error_mb: error in peak apparent magnitude / mag
     - X1: SALT2 stretch parameter
     - error_X1: error in SALT2 stretch parameter
     - c: SALT2 colour parameter
     - error_c: error in colour parameter
     - LogMst: log_10(PEGASE host galaxy mass estimate/M_solar) 
     - error_Mst: error in log_10(PEGASE host galaxy mass estimate/M_solar) 
     - omegam: Betoule's best fit reduced matter density 
     - error_omegam: error in reduced matter density
     - alpha: Betoule's best fit alpha parameter
     - error_alpha: error in alpha parameter
     - beta: Betoule's best fit beta parameter     - error_beta: error in beta parameter
     - MB1: peak absolute magnitude in rest B band frame / mag
     - error_MB1: error in peak absolute magnitude / mag
     - deltaM_9.9: mass step when split taken at 10^9.9 M_solar / mag
     - deltaM_10.1:	mass step when split taken at 10^10.1 M_solar / mag
     - mydeltaM_err: error in best fit mass step / mag
     - deltaM_sSFR: sSFR step function / mag
     - deltaM_sSFR_err: error in sSFR step function / mag

   - Host_Galaxy_Data - Sako et al. 2014 and Jones et al. 2015
  
     - Sako et al 2014:
       - SN_Name: SNe Ia Name
       - zcmb: redshift in rest CMB frame
       - logMst: log_10 (PEGASE host galaxy stellar mass / M_solar)
       - Mst_upper: upper estimate of logMst
       - Mst_lower: lower estimate of logMst
       - logSFR: log_10 (PEGASE star formation rate of galaxy / M_solar yr^(-1))
       - SFR_upper: upper estimate of logSFR 
       - SFR_lower: lower estimate of logSFR 


     - calculated from Sako et al. 2014 logMst and logSFR
       - logsSFR: log_10(specific star formation rate / yr^(-1)) 
       - sSFR_upper: upper estimate of logsSFR
       - sSFR_lower: lower estimate of logsSFR


     - Jones et al. 2015:
       - local_SFR: log_10 (GALEX local star formation rate of galaxy / M_solar yr^(-1))
       - local_SFR_upper: upper estimate of local_SFR
       - local_SFR_lower: upper estimate of local_SFR
       
  2. Comparing Curve Fit (JLA): Python 3 code used to compare Betoule's values of alpha, beta and M_B to the values from this 
     analysis for omega_m = 0.287 for full JLA sample
     
  3. Cosmological Fit (JLA): Python 3 code used to compare Betoule's fit of alpha, beta and M_B, including and excluding their 
     mass step function + residuals .  Also used to show extreme values of omega_m and Betoule's value of omega_m for full JLA sample.
     
  4. Cosmological Fit (inc. low redshift): Same as 3 but for SNLS SNe Ia only and including low redshift values generated by luminosity 
     distance equation
   
  5. Delta Omega: Python 3 code used to find best fit value of omega_m + residuals
  
  6. Host sSFR: Python 3 code used to find step correction for host galaxy sSFR
  
  7. Least Sqs Fit (JLA): Python 3 code used to find best fit values of alpha, beta and M_B for this analysis for omega_m = 0.287
     (least squares fit method)
  
  8. Local SFR: Python 3 code used to find step correction for host galaxy local SFR + residuals
  
  9. PEGASE & FSPS Comparison: Python 3 code used to compare PEGASE and FSPS spectral synthesis codes outputs for host galaxy mass and 
     SFR estimates
     
  10. Residuals (JLA): Python 3 code used to compare the effects of step corrections for different host galaxy properties on the
      Hubble Residuals
    
  11. Star Forming Galaxies Correction Only: Python 3 code used to test the effect on Hubble residuals when only using star-forming
      galaxies in least squares fit method.  Also used to test effect of using low mass galaxies only.
      
  12. delta M: Python 3 code used to find step correction for host galaxy mass + comparison with Betoule's mass step
  
 


